Hello friends and welcome to tutorials point today we cannot talk about effective communication skills module and in this module will going to 
talk about the role of perception in communication protocol active listening to the key element when it comes to communication and what are the barriers in communication so on and so forth. Speak in with this topic that is effective communication. Green about what is communication knowing the mediums of communication understanding the importance of communication what does the process what are the factors that affect the communication understanding the seven c's of communication and at the end will do a conclusion of the stock. So let's understand what this community. What is communication its nothing but sharing of information thoughts and ideas from one person to another from one person to a group of people or wise. Every communication involves two people that is a sender and a receiver. Listening also plays a key role when it comes to communicate. What are the mediums of communication medium the first verbal variant we use words we communicate by using words. The second one is known as in nonverbal variant we use a body language to communicate in message it could be a posture and just use the eye contact so on sofa. What is 
known as the total wherein we make use of logos images of pictures to depict the message of the communication that we are sharing. In the fourth what is the written communication where in email being the common form of having communication in the written form. Going forward let understand why communication is a. The communication is important because we want to understand that. At the same time we also expect others to understand. Communication is also important to build strong. Whatever that happens from your professional life to your social gatherings and everything in between that is why communication is a. Going forward lesson the send what is the process of communication. When it comes to process basically there are seven elements and why. First element is known as the centre where in the sender send some message. The others he or she and coats at this message was a cross through a channel. Now after going to channel the receiver who is that he or she could see that message and gives a. Fir pack. Now that circle that was so it is h1b of. A communication is complete only when the sender receives a feedback. From the recipe. That is when you can say that the communication process of. It is a two way process and just not oven paper. Going forward the what are the factors that affect immunity. The first factor is known as deep physiological factor. It could be you know closed or a wall or a usual area. The barriers could be like the cloth store in communicating across of course the message will not reach if the area is very big and your trying the send a message finding your to the other side of the wall communication becomes. Factor that affects the environmental factors with noise disturbance sentences. Example it is standing at a junction or on a busy road and trying to communicate your message across and sure we all know that the message is going to be a failure because a lot of disturbances which is going to make it difficult for the recipient to this. The term 
factor is. Psychological barriers what does emotional state is the person who is listening or to whom are you communicating is there the emotional status balance so that he and she can understand the emotional factors does matter. And the last factor the barrier is cultural bad. Having different attitudes tostring customs and different belief makes a communication message to be sent across result. Compound word less understand the 7 c's of communication. The first she is known as the completeness. It has to build trust. What about message that you are sending across ensure that messages. The second sea is known as conciseness tata keep your message short and sweet that is to the point it also saves time. The third sies control consideration which brings about stability that is be considerate of the other person for whom are you send this. The food is clarity which makes comprehension easier that is keep your message very clear so that is easy for the person to 10. She is concreteness it reinforces your country. Only because whatever message that is sending a cross your backing it up with data facts and figures that is how you 
being a concreteness to your community. Discourtesy improves relation. Courtesy is nothing but understanding the other person. 7c is correctness it again will sab confidence because whatever messages reading across has to be correct this should be no false message you are sending. Please be very careful. Going forward communication is. Works for those who work for. Communication is not so easy a lot of factors involved one has to be a good listener also whatever message that is sharing across please ensure that it is clear and easy for the person to another. And my 
dear friends please ensure that only if you receive a feedback from the recipient that is when your communicated your message clearly otherwise it will feel communicate. That's all in this video thank you so much for watching stay tuned for some more.